okay so in the last video we saw how to
use the Android studio logcat and how
useful it is to see a log entry when
your functions are called so now we're
going to add logging to all the
lifecycle functions doing that will let
us see exactly what happens when we do
various Android things while our apps
running we will put the street the
screen to sleep for example and also
switch to another application all ours
is running now there's quite a few
functions that we need to add but
fortunately we don't have to do a lot of
typing and that's because androids GDA
can generate the basic functions forest
we're going to start by creating a new
line here after the uncreate method
because that's where our codes going to
go and what we're going to do then is
come up here and select the code menu
we'll click the cloud menu and this is
optional over here for generate which is
a code generation and note the shortcut
on a Mac is command in and alt insert on
a PC so you can access it that way in
the future so I'm going to click on that
now and then opens up a little popup
menu down here and you can see that
there's various options on the code that
so we can get Android studio to generate
for us the one we want at this time is
override methods and that's probably the
ones that the one that you'll be using
most often you can see that override and
implement have actually got their own
keyboard shortcuts if you want to get to
those in the future you know I'm going
to select override methods and that
actually brings up a huge list all right
so the first one that I want would be on
destroy so I could come all the way down
and try and find that so we can scroll
down to find that method
there it is there so I actually click on
that and then I could hold the ctrl key
down and scroll through the list
selecting all the ones I wanted but I
can get tedious searching manually in it
- also inserts the methods in whatever
order it feels like now although the
order that they appear in the code
doesn't matter at all as far as the
computer is concerned I'd like them to
appear in the order that they're called
just so that we get used to that order
so luckily we can actually start typing
a method in the Android studio will find
it in the list so I can start typing on
start and like we can then use the down
arrow to jump to the next matching
method so I'm click on the down arrow
and you can see it's now on the right
method so once I've done that I can then
press ENTER to insert the on start
method so I'm going to do that see the
under start method is showing there now
so the next one we want is on restore
instance State but just before writing
that one I'm going to move the cursor to
the final brace in the code and notice
that if I do that and narrow door
control oh nothing seems to work
that's because we're no longer inside
the code in the class the same thing
would happen if I place the cursor above
the class declaration so I'd say on line
11 and if I do ctrl o again just to
confirm I can go to code generate notice
that the pop-up menu has changed
completely so you need to make sure to
get this generate menu option to pop up
and for our you know the functions that
we need to be able to be generated we
need to actually be inside the class so
make sure that the cursor is actually
placed inside the class somewhere all
right so I'm going to move the cursor
though as you seen seen now below the on
start method I'm now going to do a ctrl
o notice that that pops up by the screen
straightaway now then I'm going to type
on restore on our es tuyo re and you can
see that there's two options that have
popped up there and you can see that in
my case it's actually selected the right
one but notice is two here so we've got
on restore Winston statements also this
second one it's got a second argument
there and if we scroll over we can see a
bit more about that persistence state
etc so that one we actually want
is the one that's going to single bundle
arguments in other words it's this
previous one here that I've now press
the uparrow key to access to to get
access to we don't want the one with two
arguments and that's because if you
choose that option things won't work and
the same things going to happen when we
get to on savings in the state so again
be careful and choose the one that takes
a single argument and I'm going to
select on restore instance state then
now you do want to be careful with
things like on resume as well if there's
also a nun regime fragment and on post
resume we don't want to either of those
the point is to make sure you always
select the one that takes a single
argument all right so your
mini-challenge you think control o add
the method calls for the remaining
methods that we'll need and remember to
include the on restart method that's off
the top right here now I'm going to put
the last slide back here so you can see
what they're called so pause the video
and generate the remaining methods and
I'll see you when you get back
all right so hopefully managed to do
that what I'm going to do now is add the
remaining methods so we can actually
ultimately add some debug code to them
so I'm going to do my control Oh first
one's going to be on review on resume
noticing that's on post resume down
arrow and get to the own resume next one
I want you'll make a bit of space here
on pause on save instance state now
notice with that one that's the one with
four two arguments and do the down arrow
to get to the one that's got the single
argument on stop I'm just using the up
and down arrow keys and navigate to the
right one we want two more now on
restart it's the correct one and finally
we want on destroy okay so that should
be all of them so that's pretty cool as
you can see that to Android studio is
generating a lot of that code for us and
doing it this way means that we won't
have any errors in the methods these
stubs which is another word for empty
methods have been created for us with
the correct parameters and the call to
super that we need as well at this point
we're now ready to add our own code to
get these functions to perform some
other tasks now we're going to be
looking at doing something useful in a
minute we'll save the text of the
textview so that it's not lost when the
device is rotated but for now though
we're just going to get so we're going
to log the fact that these functions are
being called so we can see what's going
on now if you go back and have a look at
the uncreate method we've already got
the code the basic curl logging line in
that method so save type and what I'm
going to do is copy and paste that copy
that line and they're gonna scroll on
down there to the on start method I'm
going to paste that before the call to
super dot on start alright and place it
in the net there now and now this next
bit is very important because things
will be extremely confusing if you get
it wrong so we've copied that line into
the on start function so it's very
important now to modify the tech
to correctly reflect the function that's
being called now if you leave it as
uncreate then the login trees won't make
sense so double-click the function now
I'm going to double click on start here
I'm going to copy that
control C on Windows or Linux or command
C in my case on a Mac then I'm going to
double click the uncreate and then do a
command V on a Mac which of course would
be control V on Linux or Windows and you
can see that I've replaced that now with
the right name so you'll be copying that
line into all the lifecycle methods so
make sure you update the function name
each time did I say you again here well
that sounds like another MINI CHALLENGE
that's just as a useful tip here if
you're using the mouse left-handed you
can also do control insert to copy and
shift insert to paste on Windows or
Linux that means that you can copy and
paste with your right hand I don't have
to keep moving from the mouse to the
keyboard all right so the mini-challenge
you probably guess what this
mini-challenge is going to be just to
add the logging lines for the remaining
life cycle methods
all right so pause the video see if you
can actually add all that to the various
life cycle methods and I'll see you when
you get back pause the video now
all right so hopefully managed to sort
that out let's so go ahead and change
the rest of these nails now before we
finish the video so I'm going to copy
the on start method I'm going to put
each one before the super call using the
mechanism that we talked about I'm going
to copy the function name and paste it
over the line again on resume on pause
next one on save instance state on stop
turn water to go to logo on restart then
the last one will be on destroy alright
so that should be all of them so before
finishing just check each function to
make sure the correct function name is
being logged but I'll stop the video
here we'll run the app in the next video
and we'll have a good look at what's
happening to our activity when various
things happen so see you in the next
video